README.md, before:

# AI Youtube summarizer - Ollama models

## Features

* Summarize a youtube video given a url via streamlit interface
* Summarize a youtube video given a url via command line
* Store records in a DB (sqlite)

### How to setup

1. Setup the Sqlite database running: 
        python src/db_functions.py

2. Setup conda (or mamba) enviroment running: bin/setup.sh 
        or running 
        mamba create --name your_enviroment_name --file conf/c-requirements.txt -y

3. Add non conda libraries running pip: 
        pip install -r conf/p-requirements.txt

4. Create a config file in folder conf/system_config.json

Adjust the values accoring to your system.
```
{
    "db_name": "ai-youtube",
    "db_user": "your_user",
    "db_password": "your_password",
    "windows_data_folder": "..\\data\\",
    "windows_log_file": "..\\app.log",
    "linux_data_folder": "/your_path/data/",
    "linux_log_file": "/your_path/logs/app.log",
    "schema": "ai-youtube",
    "log_level": "DEBUG",
    "list_models": ["llama3", "phi3", "qwen2", "mistral"]
}
```

5. Get ollama working in your system. Download from www.ollama.io, and follow the instructions.

Be sure the models you use for this application are alreay downloaded run: 'ollama list' to verify the models available.

This application requierd at least llama3 model, get more models to tests different outputs


### How to run

For the web interface
```
    run : ./web-start.sh 
    or run : 
    1. cd src
    2. streamlit run app.py
```

For the command line interface
```
run: ./cmd-start.sh
```


### How to adjust the prompts

There are two files in 'conf' folder with the basic prompts.
These instructions can be modified to get different resutls from the models.
It is also posible to modify the format output of the summary 
in the section "add_to_prompt".


### Web interface
It is using streamlit for web interface:


![PNG Image](docs/web-interface.png)


### Command line interface
It is a bash shell command accepting a video file, and saving the summary 
in a file with the same name of the "video title" into "data" folder

# Database
It is a basic Sqlite database with one table about the videos summarized.

- For DB interface we use vscode plugins: 
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cweijan.vscode-mysql-client2

More details at the database.md documentation in docs folder.

# folder structure
```
├── bin
│   └── setup.sh           # Shell script for setting up the environment.
├── conf
│   ├── c-requirements.txt  # Conda environment requirements file.
│   ├── p-requirements.txt  # Pip package requirements file.
│   └── system_config.json  # Configuration settings for the application.
├── data
│   ├── ai-youtube.db       # SQLite database file for storing video summaries.
│   └── youtube-list.txt    # Text file listing YouTube video URLs.
├── docs                    # Documentation directory.
├── LICENSE                 # License file for the project.
├── logs
│   └── app.log             # Log file for application activities.
├── README.md               # This file, providing an overview and instructions.
├── src
│   ├── app.py              # Main application file.
│   ├── assistant.py        # File for the AI assistant functionality.
│   ├── db_functions.py     # Functions for interacting with the database.
│   ├── logger_config.py    # Configuration for the logging module.
├── web-start.sh            # Shell script to start the application.
├── TODO.md                 # List of tasks or features to implement.
```

Here's a brief summary of each file in the src folder:

1. `yt-cmd.py`: This is the main script for your command-line tool focused on processing YouTube videos. It generates summaries, interacts with users, and processes video data.
2. `read_config.py`: This module reads configuration parameters from a JSON file (named `system_config.json`) and provides access to those settings throughout the application.
3. `assistant.py`: This script likely contains logic for generating summaries, responding to user input, and interacting with users.
4. `db_functions.py`: This module might contain functions or methods for connecting to a database, querying data, and performing other database-related tasks.
5. `app.py`: This file is the main application file that ties everything together by importing and using functions from the other modules (e.g., `yt-cmd.py`, `assistant.py`) to process video data and generate summaries.



### For more information, check the docs folder:

* [Database](docs/database.md)
* [General Logic](docs/general-logic.md)
* [App logic](docs/main-app.md)

* [GitHub](https://github.com/rafael1856/ai-youtube)

## Upcoming Features

- [ ] Phase 2 - make a docker container to distribute the app  
- [ ] Phase 2 - add read at loud the summary  
- [ ] Phase 2 - add translate Summary to other languages  
- [ ] Phase 3 - add chatbot to talk about the transcript  
- [ ] Phase 3 - Summarize local videos (not only youtube)  
- [ ] Phase 4 - Make an andrioid App  

**Enjoy!**

Commit message:

adding new docs, update README.md

README.md, after:

# AI Youtube summarizer - Ollama models

## Features

* Summarize a youtube video given a url via streamlit interface
* Summarize a youtube video given a url via command line
* Store records in a DB (sqlite)

### How to setup

1. Setup the Sqlite database running: 
        python src/db_functions.py

2. Setup conda (or mamba) enviroment running: bin/setup.sh 
        or running 
        mamba create --name your_enviroment_name --file conf/c-requirements.txt -y

3. Add non conda libraries running pip: 
        pip install -r conf/p-requirements.txt

4. Create a config file in folder conf/system_config.json

Adjust the values accoring to your system.
```
{
    "db_name": "ai-youtube",
    "db_user": "your_user",
    "db_password": "your_password",
    "windows_data_folder": "..\\data\\",
    "windows_log_file": "..\\app.log",
    "linux_data_folder": "/your_path/data/",
    "linux_log_file": "/your_path/logs/app.log",
    "schema": "ai-youtube",
    "log_level": "DEBUG",
    "list_models": ["llama3", "phi3", "qwen2", "mistral"]
}
```

5. Get ollama working in your system. Download from www.ollama.io, and follow the instructions.

Be sure the models you use for this application are alreay downloaded run: 'ollama list' to verify the models available.

This application requierd at least llama3 model, get more models to tests different outputs


### How to run

For the web interface
```
    run : ./web-start.sh 
    or run : 
    1. cd src
    2. streamlit run app.py
```

For the command line interface
```
run: ./cmd-start.sh
```


### How to adjust the prompts

There are two files in 'conf' folder with the basic prompts.
These instructions can be modified to get different resutls from the models.
It is also posible to modify the format output of the summary 
in the section "add_to_prompt".


### Web interface
It is using streamlit for web interface:


![PNG Image](docs/web-interface.png)


### Command line interface
It is a bash shell command accepting a video file, and saving the summary 
in a file with the same name of the "video title" into "data" folder

# Database
It is a basic Sqlite database with one table about the videos summarized.

- For DB interface we use vscode plugins: 
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cweijan.vscode-mysql-client2

More details at the database.md documentation in docs folder.

* [Database](docs/database.md)

# folder structure

* [Detailed files and folders](docs/folders_and_files.md)

These are the main files for the application and are in src folder
1. `yt-cmd.py`: This is the main script for your command-line tool focused on processing YouTube videos. It generates summaries, interacts with users, and processes video data.
2. `read_config.py`: This module reads configuration parameters from a JSON file (named `system_config.json`) and provides access to those settings throughout the application.
3. `assistant.py`: This script likely contains logic for generating summaries, responding to user input, and interacting with users.
4. `db_functions.py`: This module might contain functions or methods for connecting to a database, querying data, and performing other database-related tasks.
5. `app.py`: This file is the main application file that ties everything together by importing and using functions from the other modules (e.g., `yt-cmd.py`, `assistant.py`) to process video data and generate summaries.


### For more information, check the docs folder:

* [General Logic](docs/general-logic.md)
* [App logic](docs/main-app.md)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/rafael1856/ai-youtube)

## Upcoming Features

- [ ] Phase 2 - make a docker container to distribute the app  
- [ ] Phase 2 - add read at loud the summary  
- [ ] Phase 2 - add translate Summary to other languages  
- [ ] Phase 3 - add chatbot to talk about the transcript  
- [ ] Phase 3 - Summarize local videos (not only youtube)  
- [ ] Phase 4 - Make an andrioid App  

**Enjoy!**
